"Your nature or your mind, your mind is empty, and my mind is empty, emptiness mind. How mind is
empty is like sky, mind is empty, your mind is empty as a sky.
And if that is true or not, you read to your mind. You find out if it is true or not.
How do you do this? How do this? And you look inwardly, inwardly, inwardly to your mind.
Oh, I use the word, look to the lookers. Watch to the watchers. And look to that.
And when you look to that mind, when you look into the looker, that moment, or look to that, look
at that moment, relax.
If you look to the looker, look to the looker, directly look to the looker, and then relax.
That moment, you will see what is really different between the sky and mind.
What is the difference? You will find out. You will see.
And that emptiness is what in the Dzogki teaching said, or higher teaching said.
This is the Dharmakaya. That is Dharmakaya.
What we heard Dharmakaya call it is, of course, I am making before many times, you know that.
Dharmakaya is free from the complex cities, free from the extremes. It is old in nature.
It is built from the beginning. It has no directions, no times. It is pervasives.
That is our natural, emptiness nature of the mind.
Here, to discover that nature, great master says, look to the looker, and instantly relax on that
state.
Stand up. That means you are not going to look more than that.
Looking to the looker, that is enough. That is enough to discover true quality of the nature.
If you are trying to look more than that, it is publications. It is dualities.
Then we are pulling ourselves. So that is what the symbol is, what the great master says.
There is nothing to do. It is so simple, so easy, so natural, and relax.
So that now we discover that the mind is the influence. Our mind is the emptiness.
This natural mind is not just the negation state of the empty.
It is the negation of the blank empty. Or it is the partiality empty.
It is, is, then here, next to life, the great master says, it is self-luminesity, self-awareness,
self-awareness, self-luminesity.
Immediately, when you discover the mind is empty, that moment, that same time, mind is luminosity,
mind is clarity.
Clarity is status. And it is, it is, again, here the great master says, it is like essence of like
sound.
It is like essence of sound, self-bone, self-bone, self-luminesity, essence of sound.
And again, to discover this natural, natural, this is true or not true.
Again, find out with your own mind, with your own mind, how to this.
To that, again look to the look of itself and relax in that instance and behold that vast clarity
qualities of the nature of the mind.
That is, that is clarity. Something that we cannot explain yet it is verbal experience.
That verbal experience is the clarity. That is what we experience.
This is what, again, in the teaching said, as the great master pointed out, that is sambhokaya
nature.
This is sambhokaya. This is sambhokaya and dharma kaya, as again in the teaching mentioned, they
are not separated.
All is or both are within the both. There is no difference at all.
That verbal really, that openness and that infinite vastness, that emptiness, there is no
difference between at all.
And that is, again, we are not talking someone else's mind or the Buddha's mind.
We are talking ourselves. That is what this great master on the Dzokhi point out to us.
Introducing our innate nature of the mind, our goal is what it is.
And always correct that, restenstant it, reactivate that, realize it with our mind, with your mind,
with my mind.
That is this. So that is what it says.
Now, this combination of emptiness and clarity is not just that.
The nature is movement-less.
As we said before, we went to, and the debate is called joy. Joy. Joy means movement.
So that means thoughts are coming. Thoughts are coming. So, thoughts are movement, movement of
thoughts.
Thoughts are movement, movement of thoughts.
And we think, again, where is it coming?
When this thought, movement of thoughts came, coming, we cannot explain any place of source where
it is coming.
You cannot identify that source itself.
Again, look to your mind. It is true or not.
When our thoughts, all those coming, where it is coming, where it is coming?
Also, they are coming unpredictably.
There are no regulations of the thoughts.
Coming just can't be like as showing up as it is.
Very pretty without any thought.
How is that happening?
How is that happening? Use examples here by great masters.
And this is also, I am going to be able to use an example like this. This is tea. I am going to be
able to use an example like this.
Sit here. Same as like blowing air in the sky, on the space.
Space. Thoughts are coming as blowing the wind in the space.
Space.
And again, it is true or not, read with your mind.
It is true. That example or that whole thing is true or not.
Read with your mind.
So that also, indicating, is not just a story.
It is not just a something kind of other side.
It is exactly like that. This is our nature of the mind.
Mind ourself, our weight, our goodness.
And so, to see this again, to find out, out of this, this again, so read your mind with this.
And where that thought went? Where does thought went?
Also, when we can't say it went any further.
Came as unpredictably, came as without any substantial existence,
and went way as wind went in the space.
Space. In order to discover this nature again, to make sure, again,
look to that thought, the moment of thoughts, by yourself.
So, look to the, that thought, the way that thought.
The moment you look to that, your arising thought, the moment of thoughts,
that moment, it is evaporated.
Or it is liberated. Liberated.
There is nothing any substantially that we can pick up.
So, happened as magic. Magic games. Came, be, and went left.
There is no even trace of that.
And now, next one, all this, so that is according, I mean, not according,
this is narmakai and this. Moment of thoughts are narmakai.
That is what it is.
And now, next one is, all what we have, what we call, subject and objects.
When we look to the world, there is subject and object.
Our thought and the concept are as a subject, that was already explained.
Already explained is all empty, all as like illusions or the magics.
Now, our thought, objects. Object when we look to the outside.